---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: A Humble Beginning
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-01-18
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

Growing up, I've always favored more of the artistic classes in school rather than science classes. In high school I flourished in English and Ceramics and other subjects of the like that depended on creativity. On the other hand, I detested Math, Chemistry, Anatomy, and Physics. It wasn't because I studied hard and couldn't grasped the material. In fact, I hardly ever put my mind to those classes in high school yet I still somehow got B's and C's. I think the root of my hate for science stemmed from me thinking that I was never a "science-y person" and that I could never be that smart, analytical person that many STEM students tend to be. Looking back, I wish I could've told high school me that it was normal to think those thoughts, but that they weren't true.

My interest in science started to peak when I enrolled in an accelerated math program at Kapi'olani Community College. I dreaded the idea of taking three math courses and a research course in one semester, but it was the only way where I could get ahead in my math requirements since I placed near the bottom of the food chain when I came into KCC. Each class was about 5 weeks long so I knew had no room to slack off and I needed to push myself to make sure I got help when I needed it. Luckily, the professors I had were excellent in making sure everyone had a full grasp on the material, and the program assigned lab hours each day to do homework which gave us ample time to get the help we needed. As corny as it sounds, this program provided me with not only a good foundation in mathematics, but the confidence to pursue a STEM degree.

I decided to pursue Computer Science because it seemed like the most realistic field for me to go in. I wanted to pursue a degree in the sciences but was never a biology or chemistry type of person. Technology was something that would always be around and is such an innovative field to be in.

My lack of background in computer science related endeavours dettered me for a little bit. Most people who enter this field of study already seem to know how to program or already has a specific interest. For me, I'm enjoying being immersed in a variety of topics that the Computer Science program at UH Manoa provides. In this class I hope to gain more exposure to software engineering technologies. I saw a number of these technologies listed on the course website including the Intellij Idea integrated development environment, the Semantic UI user interface framework, and the Meteor web application framework. I've never used any of those so I'm looking forward to learning more about them. I'm also eager to see how I can apply my creativity skills to technology in a way I've never done before.
